[[security-api]]
= API Management and SSO
{product-author}
{product-version]
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:prewrap!:
:sourcedir: ../

toc::[]

[[security-api-sso-containerized-solutions]]
== Containerized Solutions

Securing your applications includes managing application and API authentication
and authorization. {product-title} comes with a number of containerized services
to meet these goals that developers can use when building their applications,
including 3scale and Red Hat SSO.

[[security-api-sso-3scale]]
=== 3scale

APIs are key to applications composed of microservices. Such applications have
multiple independent API services, leading to proliferation of service end
points, which require additional tools for governance. In addition, Red Hat
recommends using an API management tool. {product-title} now includes a
containerized version of the 3scale API gateway for enhanced API security.

3scale gives you a variety of standard options for API authentication and
security, which can be used alone or in combination to issue credentials and
control access: Standard API keys, Application ID and key pair, and OAuth 2.0.

3scale's access control features go beyond basic security and authentication.
Application and account plans let you restrict access to specific end points,
methods, and services and apply access policy for groups of users. Application
plans allow you to set rate limits for API usage and control traffic flow for
groups of developers.

Other features of 3scale include:

- Set per-period limits for incoming API calls to protect your infrastructure and
keep traffic flowing smoothly.
- Automatically trigger overage alerts for applications that reach or exceed rate
limits.
- Define behavior for over-limit applications.


[[security-api-sso-red-hat-sso]]
=== Red Hat SSO

Web single sign-on (SSO) capabilities are a key part of modern applications.
Based on the upstream link:http://www.keycloak.org/[Keycloak] project, Red Hat
SSO is a fully supported, out-of-the-box SAML 2.0 or OpenID Connect-based
authentication, web single sign-on and federation service.
link:https://access.redhat.com/announcements/2801921[Red Hat SSO 7.1] features
client adapters for Red Hat JBoss Fuse and Red Hat JBoss Enterprise Application
Platform (JBoss EAP).

Red Hat SSO 7.1 includes a new Node.js client adapter, which enables
authentication and web single sign-on for Node.js applications. Red Hat SSO can
be integrated with LDAP-based directory services including Microsoft Active
Directory and Red Hat Enterprise Linux Identity Management. It also integrates
with social login providers such as Facebook, Google, and Twitter.
