[[security-content]]
= Container Content
{product-author}
{product-version]
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:prewrap!:
:sourcedir: ../

toc::[]

[[security-content-whats-in-your-container]]
== What's in Your Container?

When it comes to security, what is inside your container matters. Applications
and infrastructures are composed of readily available components, many of which
are open source packages such as, the Linux operating system, JBoss Web Server,
PostgreSQL, and Node.js.

Containerized versions of these packages are now also readily available, so that
you do not have to build your own. But, as with any code you download from some
external source, you need to know where they originally came from, who built
them, and whether there is any malicious code inside them. Ask yourself:

- Will what is inside the containers compromise your infrastructure?
- Are there known vulnerabilities in the application layer?
- Are the runtime and OS layers up to date?

[discrete]
[[security-content-further-reading-1]]
==== Further Reading

- xref:{sourcedir}using_images/index.adoc#using-images-index[_{product-title} Using Images_]
** Reference documentation on framework, database, and service container images
provided by Red Hat for use on {product-title}

[[security-content-scanning]]
== Scanning Container Content

To help answer these questions, container scanning tools can leverage
continuously updated vulnerability databases to be sure you always have the
latest information on known vulnerabilities for your container content. Because
the list of known vulnerabilities is constantly evolving, you need to check the
contents of your container images when you first download them and continue to
track vulnerability status over time for all your approved and deployed images.

RHEL provides a pluggable API to supports multiple scanners. Red Hat CloudForms
can also be used with OpenSCAP to scan container images for security issues.

In addition, {product-title} gives you the ability to leverage such scanners
with your CI/CD process. For example, you can integrate static code analysis
tools that test for security flaws in your source code and software composition
analysis tools that identify open source libraries in order to provide metadata
on those libraries such as known vulnerabilities. This is covered in more detail
in xref:{sourcedir}security/build_process.adoc#security-build[Build Process].

[discrete]
[[security-content-further-reading-2]]
==== Further Reading

- _Red Hat Enterprise Linux Security Guide_: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_Linux/7/html/Security_Guide/sect-Using_OpenSCAP_with_Docker.html[Using OpenSCAP with Docker]
