[[security-network]]
= Network Defense
{product-author}
{product-version]
:data-uri:
:icons:
:experimental:
:toc: macro
:toc-title:
:prewrap!:
:sourcedir: ../

toc::[]

[[security-network-isolating-applications]]
== Isolating Applications from Each Other

Deploying modern microservices-based applications in containers often means
deploying multiple containers distributed across multiple nodes. You need a way
to isolate applications from other applications within a cluster. You need to
consider network defense.

A typical public cloud container service, such as Google Container Engine (GKE),
Azure Container Services, and AWS Container Service, are single tenant services.
They let you run your containers on the virtual machine (VM) cluster that you
spin up. {product-title} allows you to take a single Kubernetes cluster and
segment the traffic to make multi-tenant clusters the isolate different users,
teams, applications and environments within a single cluster.

[[security-network-namespaces]]
== Network Namespaces

The first line in network defense comes from network namespaces. With network
namespaces, each collection of containers (each pod) gets its own entire IP and
port range to bind to, thereby isolating pod networks from each other on the
node. Pods from different projects cannot send packets to or receive packets
from pods and services of a different project. You can use these features to
isolate developer, test and production environments within a cluster.

However, this proliferation of IP addresses and ports makes networking more
complicated. In addition, containers are designed to come and go. Red Hat
recommends investing in tooling that handles this complexity for you.
{product-title} uses software defined networking (SDN) to provide a unified
cluster network that enables communication between containers across the
{product-title} cluster.

{product-title} also provides the ability to control egress traffic using either
a router or firewall method so that you can use IP whitelisting to control, for
example, database access.

[discrete]
[[security-network-further-reading-1]]
==== Further Reading

- _{product-title} Architecture_: xref:{sourcedir}architecture/additional_concepts/networking.adoc#architecture-additional-concepts-networking[Networking]

[[security-network-multi-tenant-sdn-plug-in]]
== Multi-tenant SDN Plug-in

In addition to network namespaces, the OpenShift SDN provides additional
security by offering isolation between master (orchestration) namespaces with
the multi-tenant plug-in. This means that packets from one namespace, by
default, will not be visible to other namespaces: pods from different namespaces
cannot send packets to or receive packets from pods and services of a different
namespace. You can use these features to isolate the developer, test, and
production networks.

If you wish to deploy network scanners, these are quite easy to containerize and
can be ran as Super Privileged Containers.

[discrete]
[[security-network-further-reading-2]]
==== Further Reading

ifdef::openshift-enterprise,openshift-origin[]
- _{product-title} Cluster Administration_: xref:{sourcedir}admin_guide/managing_networking.adoc#admin-guide-manage-networking[Manging Networking]
endif::[]
- _Red Hat Enterprise Linux Atomic Host Managing Containers_: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux_atomic_host/7/html/managing_containers/running_super_privileged_containers[Running Super-Privileged Containers]
